= uagent

Helps you to develop web applications for desktop or mobile user agents.

== Install

    $ gem install uagent

== Usage

When a browser sends a request to your web application the request has
an HTTP_USER_AGENT attribute that identifies the device an
browser. For example, the next string identifies an particular model
of iPhone, that uses an specific mobile version for Safari.

    Mozilla/5.0 (iPhone; U; CPU iPhone OS 3_1_2 like Mac OS X; en-us) 
    AppleWebKit/528.18 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/4.0 Mobile/7D11
    Safari/528.16

Each mobile phone model will send you a particular user agent string,
thus is a good idea classify the devices in groups an develop a
specific interface for each group. For each group we define a key, so
the user agent parser receive the user agent string and returns that
key. For example, the answer for the string above could be :mobile or
:iphone, depending on the parser configuration.

If you are developing web applications on top of rack, I recommend
you to look the uagent_rack[http://github.com/danielhz/uagent_rack]
gem.

=== Code example

    require 'rubygmes'
    require 'uagent'

    # A parser distinguishes between disjoin user agent sets
    
    parser = UAgent::Parser.new
    
    env = {
      ...
      "HTTP_USER_AGENT" => "Mozilla/5.0 (iPhone; U; CPU iPhone OS 3_1_2 like Mac OS X; en-us) " +
          "AppleWebKit/528.18 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/4.0 Mobile/7D11 Safari/528.16",
      ...
    }
    
    parser.call(env)    # gets :mobile
    
    env = {
      ...
      "HTTP_USER_AGENT" => "Mozilla/5.0 (X11; U; Linux i686; en-US; rv:1.9.2.10) " +
          "Gecko/20100915 Ubuntu/10.04 (lucid) Firefox/3.6.10"
      ...
    }
    
    parser.call({ 'HTTP_USER_AGENT' => 'ua })    # gets :desktop

=== Using specific user agent groups.

The basic user agent groups are :desktop and :mobile. You can add more
groups adding keys in the constructor function.

    parser = UAgent::Parser.new(:iphone)

    ua = "Mozilla/5.0 (iPhone; U; CPU iPhone OS 3_1_2 like Mac OS X; en-us) " +
         "AppleWebKit/528.18 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/4.0 Mobile/7D11 Safari/528.16"

    parser.call({ 'HTTP_USER_AGENT' => 'ua })    # gets :iphone

The keys order in the constructor is relevant. Put the most specific
keys first to indicate the parser to start for them.

=== Using a custom device database.

The parser uses a hash that associates terms to the user agent group
keyword. That terms are searched in the HTTP_USER_AGENT string to
analyze if a user agent is into a group. Now we support only the
keywords :iphone and :blackberry, thus change the database if you need
a more accurate parser.

     parser.set_database my_custom_database

== Install from code

First download the code from the repository:

    $ git clone git://github.com/danielhz/uagent.git

This project uses jeweler to build the gem, so you can use this commands:

    $ rake build            # to build the gem
    $ rake install          # to build and install the gem in one step

Also, if you want test the gem you can use the spec task:

    $ rake spec

This project uses rcov so you can check the coverage opening the HTML
file in the coverage directory after running the spec.

== Other Stuff

Author:: Daniel Hernández, daniel@degu.cl
License:: GPL V3

== Warranty

This software is provided "as is" and without any express or implied
warranties, including, without limitation, the implied warranties of
merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose.

